---
title: GTFS Engine
layout: default
---

h2. Introduction

This "GTFS(General Transit Feed Specification) Engine" is a "Rails Engine":rails-engine which will allow your Rails application to process GTFS feeds and model their associations through __ActiveRecord__ objects.

This project is currently a sub-component of the "KnowTime Server":knowtime-git project, but hopefully can of use to others projects. This project also depends on another GitHub project, "GTFS Reader":gtfs-reader-git, to actually process the __.zip__ files in which GTFS feeds are contained.

h2. Configuration

You can add @gtf-engine@ to your Rails application the same way as you would any Rails Engine. Simply:

Add the following to your @Gemfile@:

{% highlight ruby %}
  gem 'gtfs-engine'
{% endhighlight %}

And then you only have to mount the engine at some path. Add something like the following to your @config/routes.rb@ file:

{% highlight ruby %}
  mount GtfsEngine::Engine, at: '/gtfs'
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Resources

* "DataSet":{{ site.url }}/resources/data_set

* "Agency":{{ site.url }}/resources/agency
* "Stop":{{ site.url }}/resources/stop
* "Route":{{ site.url }}/resources/route
* "Trip":{{ site.url }}/resources/trip
* "StopTime":{{ site.url }}/resources/stop_time
* "Calendar":{{ site.url }}/resources/calendar
* "CalendarDate":{{ site.url }}/resources/calendar_date
* "FareAttribute":{{ site.url }}/resources/fare_attribute
* "FareRule":{{ site.url }}/resources/fare_rule
* "Shape":{{ site.url }}/resources/shape
* "Frequency":{{ site.url }}/resources/frequency
* "Transfer":{{ site.url }}/resources/transfer
* "FeedInfo":{{ site.url }}/resources/feed_info


h2. JSend

The GTFS Engine currently returns only one type of content: "JSON(JavaScript Object Notation)":wiki-json; moreover, the returned data is wrapped in a "JSend-compliant response":jsend


[rails-engine]{{ site.data.urls.rails_engine }}
[knowtime-git]{{ site.data.urls.knowtime_git }}
[gtfs-reader-git]{{ site.data.urls.gtfs_reader_git }}
[wiki-json]{{ site.data.urls.wiki_json }}
[jsend]{{ site.data.urls.jsend }}

