---
title: Transfer
layout: default
cite_google: true
required_model: true
toc: removeTopLevel
---

h2. Transfer

bq(subtitle). Rules for making connections at transfer points between routes.

bq. Trip planners normally calculate transfer points based on the relative proximity of stops in each route. For potentially ambiguous stop pairs, or transfers where you want to specify a particular choice, use transfers.txt to define additional rules for making connections between routes.

h3. Fields

h4. from_stop_id %(required)%

bq. The *from_stop_id* field contains a stop ID that identifies a stop or station where a connection between routes begins. Stop IDs are referenced from the stops.txt file. If the stop ID refers to a station that contains multiple stops, this transfer rule applies to all stops in that station.

h4. to_stop_id %(required)%

bq. The *to_stop_id* field contains a stop ID that identifies a stop or station where a connection between routes ends. Stop IDs are referenced from the stops.txt file. If the stop ID refers to a station that contains multiple stops, this transfer rule applies to all stops in that station.

h4. transfer_type %(required)%

bq. The *transfer_type* field specifies the type of connection for the specified (from_stop_id, to_stop_id) pair. Valid values for this field are:


- 0 or (empty) := This is a recommended transfer point between two routes.
- 1 := This is a timed transfer point between two routes. The departing vehicle is expected to wait for the arriving one, with sufficient time for a passenger to transfer between routes.
- 2 := This transfer requires a minimum amount of time between arrival and departure to ensure a connection. The time required to transfer is specified by *min_transfer_time*.
- 3 := Transfers are not possible between routes at this location.

h4. min_transfer_time

bq.. When a connection between routes requires an amount of time between arrival and departure (transfer_type=2), the *min_transfer_time* field defines the amount of time that must be available in an itinerary to permit a transfer between routes at these stops. The *min_transfer_time* must be sufficient to permit a typical rider to move between the two stops, including buffer time to allow for schedule variance on each route.

The *min_transfer_time* value must be entered in seconds, and must be a non-negative integer.

