---
title: Agency
layout: default
cite_google: true
required_model: true
toc: removeTopLevel
---

h2. Agency %(required)%

bq(subtitle). One or more transit agencies that provide the data in this feed.

h3. Fields

h4. agency_id %(required; unique)%

bq. The *agency_id* field is an ID that uniquely identifies a transit agency. A transit feed may represent data from more than one agency. The *agency_id* is dataset unique. This field is optional for transit feeds that only contain data for a single agency.

h4. agency_name %(required)%

bq. The *agency_name* field contains the full name of the transit agency. Google Maps will display this name.

h4. agency_url %(required)%

bq. The *agency_url* field contains the URL of the transit agency. The value must be a fully qualified URL that includes http:// or https://, and any special characters in the URL must be correctly escaped. See "W3.org: URI Recommentations":http://www.w3.org/Addressing/URL/4_URI_Recommentations.html for a description of how to create fully qualified URL values.


h4. agency_timezone %(required)%

bq. The *agency_timezone* field contains the timezone where the transit agency is located. Timezone names never contain the space character but may contain an underscore. Please refer to "Wikipedia.org: List of TZ Zones":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_zones for a list of valid values. If multiple agencies are specified in the feed, each must have the same *agency_timezone*.

h4. agency_lang

bq. The *agency_lang* field contains a two-letter ISO 639-1 code for the primary language used by this transit agency. The language code is case-insensitive (both en and EN are accepted). This setting defines capitalization rules and other language-specific settings for all text contained in this transit agency's feed. Please refer to "Loc.gov: Country Codes":http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php for a list of valid values.

h4. agency_phone

bq. The *agency_phone* field contains a single voice telephone number for the specified agency. This field is a string value that presents the telephone number as typical for the agency's service area. It can and should contain punctuation marks to group the digits of the number. Dialable text (for example, TriMet's "503-238-RIDE") is permitted, but the field must not contain any other descriptive text. 

h4. agency_fare_url

bq. The *agency_fare_url* specifies the URL of a web page that allows a rider to purchase tickets or other fare instruments for that agency online. The value must be a fully qualified URL that includes http:// or https://, and any special characters in the URL must be correctly escaped. See "W3.org: URI Recommendations":http://www.w3.org/Addressing/URL/4_URI_Recommentations.html for a description of how to create fully qualified URL values. 

