---
title: FareAttribute
layout: default
cite_google: true
required_model: true
toc: removeTopLevel
---

h2. FareAttribute

bq(subtitle). Fare information for a transit organization's routes.

h3. Fields

h4. fare_id %(required; unique)%

The *fare_id* field contains an ID that uniquely identifies a fare class.

The *fare_id* is dataset unique.

h4. price %(required)%

The *price* field contains the fare price, in the unit specified by *currency_type*.

h4. currency_type %(required)%

The *currency_type* field defines the currency used to pay the fare. Please use the ISO 4217 alphabetical currency codes which can be found at the following URL: "ISO.org: Currency Codes":codes.

h4. payment_method %(required)%

The *payment_method* field indicates when the fare must be paid. Valid values for this field are:

- 0 := Fare is paid on board.
- 1 := Fare must be paid before boarding.

h4. transfers %(required)%

The transfers field specifies the number of transfers permitted on this fare. Valid values for this field are:

- 0 := No transfers permitted on this fare.
- 1 := Passenger may transfer once.
- 2 := Passenger may transfer twice.
- _(empty)_ := If this field is empty, unlimited transfers are permitted. 

h4. transfer_duration

The *transfer_duration* field specifies the length of time in seconds before a transfer expires.

When used with a transfers value of 0, the *transfer_duration* field indicates how long a ticket is valid for a fare where no transfers are allowed. Unless you intend to use this field to indicate ticket validity, *transfer_duration* should be omitted or empty when transfers is set to 0.

[codes]http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/iso4217.htm
