---
title: Trip
layout: default
cite_google: true
required_model: true
toc: .wrapper section
---

h2. Trip %(required)%

bq(subtitle). Trips for each route. A trip is a sequence of two or more stops that occurs at specific time.

h3. Fields

h4. route_id %(required)%

bq. The *route_id* field contains an ID that uniquely identifies a route. This value is referenced from the routes.txt file.

h4. service_id %(required)%

bq. The *service_id* contains an ID that uniquely identifies a set of dates when service is available for one or more routes. This value is referenced from the calendar.txt or *calendar_dates*.txt file.

h4. trip_id %(required)%

bq. The *trip_id* field contains an ID that identifies a trip. The *trip_id* is dataset unique.

h4. trip_headsign

bq. The *trip_headsign* field contains the text that appears on a sign that identifies the trip's destination to passengers. Use this field to distinguish between different patterns of service in the same route. If the headsign changes during a trip, you can override the *trip_headsign* by specifying values for the the *stop_headsign* field in stop_times.txt.

h4. trip_short_name

bq.. The *trip_short_name* field contains the text that appears in schedules and sign boards to identify the trip to passengers, for example, to identify train numbers for commuter rail trips. If riders do not commonly rely on trip names, please leave this field blank.

A *trip_short_name* value, if provided, should uniquely identify a trip within a service day; it should not be used for destination names or limited/express designations.

h4. direction_id

bq. The *direction_id* field contains a binary value that indicates the direction of travel for a trip. Use this field to distinguish between bi-directional trips with the same *route_id*. This field is not used in routing; it provides a way to separate trips by direction when publishing time tables. You can specify names for each direction with the *trip_headsign* field.

- 0 := travel in one direction (e.g. outbound travel)
- 1 := travel in the opposite direction (e.g. inbound travel)

bq. For example, you could use the *trip_headsign* and *direction_id* fields together to assign a name to travel in each direction for a set of trips. A trips.txt file could contain these rows for use in time tables:

<pre>
    trip_id,...,trip_headsign,direction_id
    1234,...,to Airport,0
    1505,...,to Downtown,1 
</pre>

h4. block_id

bq. The *block_id* field identifies the block to which the trip belongs. A block consists of two or more sequential trips made using the same vehicle, where a passenger can transfer from one trip to the next just by staying in the vehicle. The *block_id* must be referenced by two or more trips in trips.txt.

h4. shape_id

bq. The *shape_id* field contains an ID that defines a shape for the trip. This value is referenced from the shapes.txt file. The shapes.txt file allows you to define how a line should be drawn on the map to represent a trip.

h4. wheelchair_accessible

- 0 (or empty) := indicates that there is no accessibility information for the trip
- 1 := indicates that the vehicle being used on this particular trip can accommodate at least one rider in a wheelchair
- 2 := indicates that no riders in wheelchairs can be accommodated on this trip

h4. bikes_allowed

- 0 (or empty) := indicates that there is no bike information for the trip
- 1 := indicates that the vehicle being used on this particular trip can accommodate at least one bicycle
- 2 := indicates that no bicycles are allowed on this trip

