---
title: FareRule
layout: default
cite_google: true
required_model: true
toc: removeTopLevel
---

h2. FareRule

bq(subtitle). Rules for applying fare information for a transit organization's routes.

The fare_rules table allows you to specify how fares in "fare_attributes.txt":fare_attribute apply to an itinerary. Most fare structures use some combination of the following rules:

* Fare depends on origin or destination stations.
* Fare depends on which zones the itinerary passes through.
* Fare depends on which route the itinerary uses.

For examples that demonstrate how to specify a fare structure with fare_rules.txt and "fare_attributes.txt":fare_attribute, see "FareExamples":examples in the GoogleTransitDataFeed open source project wiki.

h3. Fields

h4. fare_id %(required; unique)%

The *fare_id* field contains an ID that uniquely identifies a fare class. This value is referenced from the "fare_attributes.txt":fare_attribute file.

h4. route_id

The *route_id* field associates the fare ID with a route. Route IDs are referenced from the "routes.txt":route file. If you have several routes with the same fare attributes, create a row in fare_rules.txt for each route.

For example, if fare class "b" is valid on route "TSW" and "TSE", the fare_rules.txt file would contain these rows for the fare class:

<pre>
b,TSW
b,TSE
</pre>

h4. origin_id

The *origin_id* field associates the fare ID with an origin zone ID. Zone IDs are referenced from the "stops.txt":stop file. If you have several origin IDs with the same fare attributes, create a row in fare_rules.txt for each origin ID.

For example, if fare class "b" is valid for all travel originating from either zone "2" or zone "8", the fare_rules.txt file would contain these rows for the fare class:

<pre>
b, , 2
b, , 8
</pre>

h4. destination_id

The *destination_id* field associates the fare ID with a destination zone ID. Zone IDs are referenced from the "stops.txt":stop file. If you have several destination IDs with the same fare attributes, create a row in fare_rules.txt for each destination ID.

For example, you could use the origin_ID and destination_ID fields together to specify that fare class "b" is valid for travel between zones 3 and 4, and for travel between zones 3 and 5, the fare_rules.txt file would contain these rows for the fare class:

<pre>
b, , 3,4
b, , 3,5
</pre>

h4. contains_id

The *contains_id* field associates the fare ID with a zone ID, referenced from the "stops.txt":stop file. The fare ID is then associated with itineraries that pass through every contains_id zone.

For example, if fare class "c" is associated with all travel on the GRT route that passes through zones 5, 6, and 7 the fare_rules.txt would contain these rows:

<pre>
c,GRT,,,5
c,GRT,,,6
c,GRT,,,7
</pre>

Because all contains_id zones must be matched for the fare to apply, an itinerary that passes through zones 5 and 6 but not zone 7 would not have fare class "c". For more detail, see "FareExamples":examples in the GoogleTransitDataFeed project wiki.

[fare_attribute]{{ site.url }}/resources/fare_attribute
[route]{{ site.url }}/resources/route
[stop]{{ site.url }}/resources/stop
[examples]http://code.google.com/p/googletransitdatafeed/wiki/FareExamples
