---
title: Stop
layout: default
cite_google: true
toc: removeTopLevel
---

h2. Stop %(required)%

bq(subtitle). Individual locations where vehicles pick up or drop off passengers.

h3. Routes

- Get All Stops :=
bc(get). GET /stops
=:

h4. Example Response

{% highlight json %}
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "stop_id": "1234",
    "stop_name": "Pleasant St, after Elm St",
    "stop_lat": 43.654321,
    "stop_lon": -48.543210,
    "location_type": 0
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}


h3. Fields

h4. stop_id %(required; unique)%

The *stop_id* field contains an ID that uniquely identifies a stop or station. Multiple routes may use the same stop.

The *stop_id* is dataset unique.

h4. stop_code

The *stop_code* field contains short text or a number that uniquely identifies the stop for passengers. Stop codes are often used in phone-based transit information systems or printed on stop signage to make it easier for riders to get a stop schedule or real-time arrival information for a particular stop.

The *stop_code* field should only be used for stop codes that are displayed to passengers. For internal codes, use *stop_id*. This field should be left blank for stops without a code.

h4. stop_name %(required)%

The *stop_name* field contains the name of a stop or station. Please use a name that people will understand in the local and tourist vernacular.

h4. stop_desc

The *stop_desc* field contains a description of a stop. Please provide useful, quality information. Do not simply duplicate the name of the stop.

h4. stop_lat %(required)%

The *stop_lat* field contains the latitude of a stop or station. The field value must be a valid WGS 84 latitude.

h4. stop_lon %(required)%

The *stop_lon* field contains the longitude of a stop or station. The field value must be a valid WGS 84 longitude value from -180 to 180.

h4. zone_id

The *zone_id* field defines the fare zone for a stop ID. Zone IDs are required if you want to provide fare information using "fare_rules.txt":fare_rule. If this stop ID represents a station, the zone ID is ignored.

h4. stop_url

The *stop_url* field contains the URL of a web page about a particular stop. This should be different from the *agency_url* and the *route_url* fields.

The value must be a fully qualified URL that includes @http://@ or @https://@, and any special characters in the URL must be correctly escaped. See "W3.org: URI Recommendations":uris for a description of how to create fully qualified URL values.

h4. location_type

The *location_type* field identifies whether this stop ID represents a stop or station. If no location type is specified, or the location_type is blank, stop IDs are treated as stops. Stations may have different properties from stops when they are represented on a map or used in trip planning.

The location type field can have the following values:


- 0 or blank := Stop. A location where passengers board or disembark from a transit vehicle.
- 1 := Station. A physical structure or area that contains one or more stop.

h4. parent_station

For stops that are physically located inside stations, the *parent_station* field identifies the station associated with the stop. To use this field, stops.txt must also contain a row where this stop ID is assigned location type=1.

|_.This stop is...|_.location_type is...|_.parent_station contains...|
|located inside a station.|0 or blank |The stop ID of the station where this stop is located. The stop referenced by parent_station must have location_type=1.|
|located outside a station.|0 or blank|A blank value. The parent_station field doesn't apply to this stop.|
|a station.|1|A blank value. Stations can't contain other stations.|

h4. stop_timezone

The *stop_timezone* field contains the timezone in which this stop or station is located. Please refer to Wikipedia List of Timezones for a list of valid values. If omitted, the stop should be assumed to be located in the timezone specified by agency_timezone in "agency.txt":agency.

When a stop has a parent station, the stop is considered to be in the timezone specified by the parent station's *stop_timezone* value. If the parent has no *stop_timezone* value, the stops that belong to that station are assumed to be in the timezone specified by *agency_timezone*, even if the stops have their own *stop_timezone* values. In other words, if a given stop has a *parent_station* value, any *stop_timezone* value specified for that stop must be ignored.

Even if *stop_timezone* values are provided in stops.txt, the times in "stop_times.txt":stop_time should continue to be specified as time since midnight in the timezone specified by *agency_timezone* in "agency.txt":agency. This ensures that the time values in a trip always increase over the course of a trip, regardless of which timezones the trip crosses.

h4. wheelchair_boarding

The *wheelchair_boarding* field identifies whether wheelchair boardings are possible from the specified stop or station. The field can have the following values:

- 0 (or empty) := indicates that there is no accessibility information for the stop
- 1 := indicates that at least some vehicles at this stop can be boarded by a rider in a wheelchair
- 2 := wheelchair boarding is not possible at this stop

When a stop is part of a larger station complex, as indicated by a stop with a *parent_station* value, the stop's *wheelchair_boarding* field has the following additional semantics:

- 0 (or empty) := the stop will inherit its *wheelchair_boarding* value from the parent station, if specified in the parent
- 1 := there exists some accessible path from outside the station to the specific stop / platform
- 2 := there exists no accessible path from outside the station to the specific stop / platform

[uris]{{ site.data.urls.w3_uri }}
[agency]{{ site.url }}/resources/agency
[fare_rule]{{ site.url }}/resources/fare_rule
[stop_time]{{ site.url }}/resources/stop_time
